Life insurance can cost as little as $2 per day,
and much much more obviously.
And there's many great resources online
for shopping for life insurance.
So here's the $2 daily source I got online.
And you gotta do you own research always.
And the reason that insurance can seem so cheap to buy
is because of the likelihood of all policy holders
needing insurance money at the same time is very low.
And also because of the incredible
compounding interest phenomenon.
As money grows really fast okay.
And we talk about that in the first exercise in the course.
And once you get married or right before
your first child is born,
it really makes sense to get life insurance.
Buy life insurance as soon as you can because premiums
are much lower when you're healthier
and younger as well obviously.
You know, it's hard for me to tell you exactly
how much you need for life insurance.
You know, I recommend calculating how much you'd
receive today if you'd liquidated everything you own
except for your house.
And then add to that all of your retirement savings,
then deduct taxes as a starting point to kind of figure out
I don't know, what you need from a
life insurance coverage perspective.
And I talked about the ten x ratio earlier in the course.
But just be really conservative and don't rely much
on social security when you're calculating
what you need coverage for.
Most people think life insurance costs
way more than it actually does.
So the next step is for you to please call local
life insurance companies and start price shopping.
And ask the life insurance companies to explain exactly
how much you get and when are these policies--
because these policies are very complex.
Ask how much you get and when and that sort of thing, okay.
When obviously means if you God forbid pass away,
but is there kind of a lag between when you pass away
and when your family gets the capital, that sort of thing.
Ask these companies to reexplain the policy
a few times to you if you need.
I had to do that.
I had to ask them to explain it a couple times right.
And then what I usually do is I explain back to them
in my simple terms, and they either say,
"Yeah that makes sense" or "sort of" or whatever.
So these are really complex financial securities at times
that you just gotta ask about them right.
Especially when it comes to-- you'll hear people
talk about deferred annuities which basically means
you get insurance income later.
It's deferred okay.
That means you buy it now, and you get a certain amount
of yearly at a certain age for a certain number of years.
There's so many different ways to buy insurance.
And so the word deferred again means later.
And the word annuities means annual.
Think of the money as we get deferred annual.
We get later on money every year, that sort of thing.
Let's drill down a little bit more on deferred anunities,
meaning annual money we get later.
There's two types of deferred annuities.
One type is a fixed annuity
where you get the same amount of money annually
that grows tax deferred.
This first fixed time period expires in say
five or ten years.
And when it expires, you can reinvest tax-free.
And the second type is an index annuity
meaning you get part of the stock market upside
with no downside.
And I know it sounds a little complicated
so please meet wit your insurance company for
more details as they can really create these
complex financial instruments, okay.
Anyway, ask them all about it.
But what happens though is you can get an annual
lump sum at a certain point in time at a certain age
at a certain number of years, kinda like a pension
with tax benefits.
Again please ask your insurance company for more details.
Okay, it's complicated.
Ask them to explain it in great detail.
As they can be different based on your age, right,
your potential retirement age and other factors as well.
It's all quite different based on
where we are on in our lives, okay.
And also ask them what is the cap on the upside
and double check that there's very little or downside okay.
Wait a second, how can you get no downside?
Because insurance companies use very complex options
to make sure that they don't lose money.
Again, please ask your insurance company for more details.
And of course, ensure that they are very reputable
and have a good rating like Moody's
and S&P rates them well.
Don't worry, we're going to cover what rating agency
Moody's and S&P means later in the course
when we talk about bonds which is a fascinating topic
that you're gonna love.
Again I have to stress how we recommend not investing
in variable annuities as the hidden fees are awful.
I like investing in term instead as I like to
only buy life insurance from life insurance companies.
And these life insurance policies are complicated,
and many of them are quite different.
Just ask your insurance sales person
to explain it a few times over and over and over
until you get it.
And sometimes the most complicated financial products
cost us more in fees in the long run.
They're hidden, okay.
And insurance is one of the most complex topics
in all of finance.
And I actually had to-- I had to ask many, many times
until my insurance rep really dumbed it down for me.
And I was able to explain it back to him
what I thought all this meant.
And then finally he said, "yes that's correct."
So just ask them to explain it and reexplain it
because every policy can be quite different
based on what country you're in.
I'm trying to make this course generic enough
to fit and work in every country,
but every insurance policy is different.
So the next lecture, we're going to talk
about auto insurance.